.TH OTCA 1

.SH NAME
otca - sets up a public-key infrastructure built around an One-Time CA

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B otca
[
.I OPTIONS
]...
[
.I SERVERNAME
]
.I CLIENTNAME

.SH CONFIGURATION

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B otca 
is a script for setting up a public-key infrastructure (PKI), which is built
around a certificate authority (CA) that is only used once. After all of the
certificates have been signed, the CA's private key is permanently removed
and no other actions can be taken.

This is useful in instances where the scaling benefits of a PKI are actually
not needed, but using certificates is still desired. One particular use case
is a point-to-point OpenVPN setup. While OpenVPN supports static keys, using
certificates provides additional security (ephemeral keys, forward secrecy).

Generating the keys and signing the appropriate certificates quickly becomes a
tedious task.
.B otca
tries to simplify this.

.SH OPTIONS

.SH EXIT STATUS

.SH FILES
.I /etc/otca/otca.cnf
.RS
OpenSSL configuration file that
.B otca
uses by default. It describes the way certificates are generated, along with
the appropriate extensions. Refer to
.BR config(5)
for details.
.RE

.SH NOTES
Since the private key of the CA is removed, no additional certificates can be
issued or revoked. If these aspects of a PKI are needed,
.B otca 
is probably the wrong tool to use.

.SH EXAMPLE
For the typical use case you only need to run the following command:
.PP
.nf
.RS
otca foo
.RE
.fi
.PP
where
.I foo
is the name of the client. In case you also want to specify the name of the server (e.g.
.I bar
) invoke
.B otca
in the following way:
.PP
.nf
.RS
otca bar foo
.RE
.fi
.PP

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR openssl (1),
.BR ca (1),
.BR req (1)

.SH AUTHOR
.B otca
was written by
.MT karol@babioch.de
Karol Babioch
.ME .
For updates and more information, refer to the project page over on
.UR https://\:www.github.com/kbabioch/otca
GitHub.com
.UE .

.SH COPYING
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program. If not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin
Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.

